(Port Ludlow and Lofall quadrangles)

This cell originates at a zone of drift divergence centered
approximately 1.0 km southwest of the base of the Hood Canal Bridge
(near Termination Point, Lofall quadrangle), and has northeastward then
northward net shore-drift for 3.5 km to northern Bywater Bay (Port
Ludlow quadrangle).  Substantial erosion is occurring at the cell's
origin at a bluff composed of stratified, sandy, glacial drift.  A
near-vertical, poorly-vegetated bluff face is found here, fronted by a
narrow, coarse gravel beach containing abundant boulders.  Net
shore-drift sediment has accumulated on the southwest side of fill at
the base of the bridge, which has prograded seaward until drift
sediment could pass around the base of the bridge.

Net shore-drift continues northward beyond the bridge and Shine
Tidelands State Park adjacent to the north side of the bridge.
Immediately north of the park there is a series of
northeast-southwest trending nearshore bars, moving northward,
indicating continued northward net shore-drift.  Beach width increases
over the length of the cell, from approximately 30 m at the cell
origin to 100 m in northern Bywater Bay (Port Ludlow quadrangle), also
indicating northward net shore-drift.  Other indicators of northward net
shore-drift are northward increase in bluff vegetation, decrease in
sediment size, and the progradation of a 0.5-km-long, sandy spit in
northern Bywater Bay, the end of which constitutes the cell terminus.
At approximately 50 m wide, the spit is a major sediment sink.  It
contains 4 prominent beach ridges and remnants of older beach ridges.
As mentioned in the cell JE-7 description, some sand continues beyond
the distal end of this spit and across a shallow tidal channel, to be
deposited on the beach in cell JE-7.
