Shilshole Bay quad

Beginning at a drift divergence at a rounded protrusion of the coast
at Section 24 about 1 km north of Carkeek Park, this drift cell has
southward net shore-drift terminating against riprap and the north
jetty at the Shilshole Bay Moorage.  This net drift direction is
initially indicated by sediment grading from north to south around a
small depositional beach near the mouth of Pipers Creek.  This stream
mouth is deflected towards the south by an accreting ridge of sand and
gravel.  Prior to shoreline modification for construction of the
adjacent railroad, historical mapping dated 1874 shows a southward
stream-mouth offset of nearly 100 meters (U. S. Coast Survey, 1874,
Survey T-1390a, scale, 1:10,000).  South of Pipers Creek several small
streams have built intertidal fans which inhibit the net shore-drift,
thus accumulating broader beaches on the northeast side.  Down-drift
beach widening is evident on the north side of a small square
structure located on the foreshore south of these small streams.  
Southerly shoredrift continues to Meadow Point with foreshore sediments
of cobble, pebble and sand at the point grading towards the southeast to a
foreshore of well sorted sand.  This sediment is accumulating against
the riprap defending the filled parking area at the north end of the
Shilshole Bay Moorage.  The low tide terrace is composed of sand and 
organic-rich mud.  A minor amount of sand is transported along the base
of this riprap to accumulate against the north jetty of the moorage,
the absolute terminus of the drift cell.
