This segment is the south part and terminus of a cell originat-ing
north of Von Geldern Cove (Map PI-15).  Southerly net shore-drift
indica-tors include a southward sediment size decrease, and sediment
accumulated on the northeast sides of drift obstructions.  The terminus
of the segment is at the southwest end of Von Geldern Cove where the
sandy foreshore gives way to a tidal mudflat This short drift cell
originates along South Head and terminates at a cuspate spit developed
on the lee side of the South Head peninsula.  An immediate decrease in
sediment size and increase in beach slope and beach width indicate a
southerly net shore-drift.  Additional drift indicators include
sediment accumulated on the north side of a wooden ramp, erosion at the
south end of a wooden bulkhead, and an easterly pro-grading cuspate
spit.  The presence of a cuspate spit is the result of the convergence
of two drift cells (19A-10 and 19A-11).  From an origin 1 km south of
South Head, this drift cell exhibits northerly net shore-drift, and
terminates at a cuspate spit on the lee side of South Head.  Northerly
net shore-drift is indicated by a decrease in sediment size, a
northerly increase in beach width, and the presence of an easterly
prograding cuspate spit.  This short segment is the zone of divergence
of a drift cell terminating at Driftwood Point (Map PI-19, Segment
19-1).  Wave-induced erosion has developed a steep, unstable bluff
fronted by a wave-cut platform, and left a thin veneer of cobbles
covering the foreshore.
