This short drift cell is quite unique from other local drift cells due
to its location (between large areas of nansd), the width of the zone
of divergence compared to the distance to the drift terminus, and the
artificial nature of its origin.  The zone of divergence begins with a
small bank (0.25 m) approximately 10 m north of Commencement Bay
Marina, extending to 75 m north of the marina.  The sediment making up
this zone is a dark-gray, sand-fill material (Puyallup River delta
sand) overlying an eroding layer of peat.  This area was once filled
and built upon for some type of waterfront use, as evidenced by the
fill material and rotted wood pilings protruding up through the sand.
From the north end of this zone there is a northerly component of net
shore-drift as witnessed by a 50 to 60 m northerly prograding
intertidal spit.  The tip of this spit is the drift terminus.  Seaward
of the zone of divergence and spit there is a wide shelf composed of
the same type of sediment.  The size of this shelf indicates that as
much or more sediment is being moved offshore as is parallel to the
shore.

Two hundred meters north of the Hylebos Waterway there is a coastal
stretch that is effectively cut off from continued regular wave action
by numerous, long log booms and dozens of sections of rafted logs.  The
wave action required for sediment transport does not exist, therefore no
appreciable net shore-drift occurs here and for several hundred meters
to the north.
