(Mukilteo and Everett quads)

Cell SN-1 originates at Edgewater (northeast of Mukilteo) and has
northeastward net shore-drift for 5.3 km to the beginning of the
modified shore at southern Port Gardner, Everett.  Net shore-drift in
this area is similar to that of the northern King County mainland
(Chrzastowski, 1982) and the rest of southern Snohomish County, having
northward or northeastward net shore-drift that is driven by southerly
and southwesterly waves.  This cell is also exposed to waves from the
northwest, approaching the shore roughly at a right angle, causing no
substantial shore drift.

Net shore-drift in cell SN-1 originates immediately northeast of a
large fuel storage facility, where a small stream delivers a limited
amount of sediment to a gravel beach.  Northeastward net shore-drift is
indicated by sediment accumulation on the southwest side of several
piles of granite boulders (that have fallen from the fitted-stone
seawall) within the first 1 km of the cell, northeastward stream mouth
offset and sand accumulation on the southwest side of the delta below
Powder Mill Gulch and the small delta located 300 m west of Merrill and
Ring Creek, northeastward creek offset and delta offset at the Merrill
and Ring Creek delta, nearshore bars oriented north-south, moving
northeastward across the lower portions of these deltas, overall
northeastward sediment size decrease, and sediment accumulation on the
southwest side of the Pigeon Creek Number Two delta and at a rip-rap
revetment immediately northeast of the Pigeon Creek outlet.  The cell
terminus is located at this rip-rap revetment, the beginning of the
modified shore in Port Gardner.
