Lummi Island Quad

This drift cell extends from Point Migley south to the apex of Village
Point.

Net shore drift is to the south in this cell.

Point Migley is an eroding rock platform.  Steeply dipping
sedimentary rock intersects the beach 0.8 kilometers south of Point
Migley.  There is a large shoreward offset in the beach to the south.
In this 0.8 kilometer section of coast, an anomalous reverse grading
occurs.  The beach sediment becomes coarser in the direction of drift.
Such cases have been reported in England and the Soviet Union.  These
anomalies apparently occur when low energy waves move finer particles
in the reverse direction to that of high energy waves which move all
sediment sizes and are responsible for the net shore drift direction.
In this case, the beach broadens, the volume of beach sediment
increases, and a berm is well-developed to the south, in spite of the
anomalous sediment grading.  Noticeable bluff erosion is occurring at
the north end of this stretch while little is occurring in the south.

Another 0.8 kilometer south, at Fern Point, there is another large
shoreward offset in the beach to the south where the beach is
intersected by a rock promontory.  The beach south of Fern Point widens
somewhat to the south. About 0.8 kilometers south of Fern Point,
steeply dipping sedimentary rock once again intersects the beach,
roughly normal to the shore.  This is followed by a shoreward offset
and fining of beach sediment southward from cobbles to gravel, to the
tip of the accumulation landform, Village Point.  The backshore
broadens considerably to the south. The stepped coastline, described
above, is in itself an indicator of the southerly net shore drift
direction.  The greatest fetch is to the northwest, 145 kilometers
along the Strait of Georgia.
