Lummi Island, Eliza Island quads

This drift cell is situated on the southwest side of Portage Island and
runs from the southeastern apex of Portage Island to the point where
Portage Island connects with Lummi Peninsula.

Drift is to the northwest in this cell.

The overall shape of the island indicates northwest net shore drift,
as it is convex to the southeast and concave to the northwest.  The
prevailing and predominant winds, as determined by this investigation,
are from the south and southeast.  The greatest fetch is 18 kilometers
to the southeast.  Sediment size grades from cobbles at the southeast
to mostly coarse sand and gravel at the northwest.  The beach
gradually widens to the northwest.  The northwest two-thirds of the
cell is mainly accretionary, while the southeast part is composed of
eroding bluffs.

A spit is built to the northwest at the northwestern end of this
cell.  This spit, the northern end of which is called The Portage
connects the island with the Lummi Peninsula at low tide, but at high
tide water covers the most northwestern portion of the spit.  In
examining maps by the US Coast and Geodetic Survey and the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), dating as far back as
1879 it was found that at times this spit did connect the island to
the mainland even at high tide.  This is seen on maps dated 1879 and
1964.  It may be that periodic storms breach this tombolo or that
sediment is supplied in pulses.  The fact that the very southeastern
end of the accumulation beach in this cell appears to be eroding to
the northwest may indicate a decrease in sediments, or an increase in
storms from the southeast.  It is beyond the scope of this study to
accurately determine this, however.
