Ferndale quad

This drift cell is situated on the north shore of Bellingham Bay.  It runs
westward from the riprapped log yard behind the Mount Baker Plywood
Company to the Nooksack River delta.

Net shore drift is from the southeast to the northwest.

Beach sediment size decreases and beach width widens to the northwest
for about one kilometer, to a long pier.  Logs have jammed up against
the pier foundation, thereby accelerating accumulation to the southeast
of the pier and erosion on the northwest.  The beach widens towards the
northwest again for about one half a kilometer, until it reaches a
section of heavily riprapped shore where drift is minimal in the upper
foreshore.  Past the end of this riprap, behind the Columbia Cement
Company plant, there is a large dump site where refractory bricks,
concrete, and large iron objects are bulldozed over a bluff onto the
shore.  This material is acting as artificial nourishment for a long
stretch of beach. Despite the untidy appearance of this material, it
is protecting the bluffs behind the beaches on which it comprises a
significant amount of beach sediment.  The bricks, concrete, and iron
form an identifiable sediment, which is found only to the northwest of
the cement plant.  The sediment grows distinctly finer in size to the
northwest.  The visible beach sediment for the next one to two
kilometers is comprised mainly of wood in the form of sawdust, wood
chips, bark, twigs, branches, and logs.  This unusual beach widens to
the west.  The bluffs behind the beach become less steep and more
vegetated toward the west. The extreme western end of the beach seems
to be a lobe of wooden sediment built to the west. The source of all
this wood debris was a hill formerly located on the bluff at the east
end of the wood accumulation.

The greatest fetch runs to the south about 22 kilometers.
